# Docker Official Images

## Table of Contents

<!-- AUTOGENERATED TOC -->

1.	[Docker Official Images](#docker-official-images)
	1.	[Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
	2.	[What are "Official Images"?](#what-are-official-images)
	3.	[Architectures other than amd64?](#architectures-other-than-amd64)
	4.	[More FAQs?](#more-faqs)
	5.	[Contributing to the standard library](#contributing-to-the-standard-library)
		1.	[Review Guidelines](#review-guidelines)
			1.	[Maintainership](#maintainership)
			2.	[Repeatability](#repeatability)
			3.	[Consistency](#consistency)
			4.	[Clarity](#clarity)
			5.	[init](#init)
			6.	[Cacheability](#cacheability)
			7.	[Security](#security)
				1.	[Image Build](#image-build)
				2.	[Runtime Configuration](#runtime-configuration)
				3.	[Security Releases](#security-releases)
			8.	[Multiple Architectures](#multiple-architectures)
		2.	[Commitment](#commitment)
	6.	[Library definition files](#library-definition-files)
		1.	[Filenames](#filenames)
		2.	[Tags and aliases](#tags-and-aliases)
		3.	[Instruction format](#instruction-format)
		4.	[Creating a new repository](#creating-a-new-repository)
		5.	[Adding a new tag in an existing repository (that you're the maintainer of)](#adding-a-new-tag-in-an-existing-repository-that-youre-the-maintainer-of)
		6.	[Change to a tag in an existing repository (that you're the maintainer of)](#change-to-a-tag-in-an-existing-repository-that-youre-the-maintainer-of)
	7.	[Bashbrew](#bashbrew)

<!-- AUTOGENERATED TOC -->

## What are "Official Images"?

The Docker Official Images are curated images [hosted on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/library). The main tenets are:

- Focus on [Free](https://www.debian.org/social_contract#guidelines) and [Open-Source](https://opensource.org/) Software

- Support [multiple architectures](#architectures-other-than-amd64)

- Exemplify [`Dockerfile` best practices](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/)

- [Actively rebuild](#library-definition-files) for updates and security fixes

- Adhere to upstream recommendations

- Add minimal quality-of-life behavior for the container environment where fit

See [Docker's documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/official_repos/) for a good high-level overview of the program.

In essence we strive to heed upstream's recommendations on how they intend for their software to be consumed. Many images are maintained in collaboration with the relevant upstream project if not maintained directly by them. Additionally we aim to exemplify the best practices for Dockerfiles to serve as a reference when making or deriving your own images from them.

(If you are a representative of an upstream for which there exists an image and you would like to get involved, please see the [Maintainership](#maintainership) section below!)

## Architectures other than amd64?

Some images have been ported for other architectures, and many of these are officially supported (to various degrees).

-	Architectures officially supported by Docker, Inc. for running Docker: (see [download.docker.com](https://download.docker.com/linux/))
	-	ARMv6 32-bit (`arm32v6`): https://hub.docker.com/u/arm32v6/
	-	ARMv7 32-bit (`arm32v7`): https://hub.docker.com/u/arm32v7/
	-	ARMv8 64-bit (`arm64v8`): https://hub.docker.com/u/arm64v8/
	-	Linux x86-64 (`amd64`): https://hub.docker.com/u/amd64/
	-	Windows x86-64 (`windows-amd64`): https://hub.docker.com/u/winamd64/
-	Other architectures built by official images: (but *not* officially supported by Docker, Inc.)
	-	ARMv5 32-bit (`arm32v5`): https://hub.docker.com/u/arm32v5/
	-	IBM POWER8 (`ppc64le`): https://hub.docker.com/u/ppc64le/
	-	IBM z Systems (`s390x`): https://hub.docker.com/u/s390x/
	-	MIPS64 LE (`mips64le`): https://hub.docker.com/u/mips64le/
	-	RISC-V 64-bit (`riscv64`): https://hub.docker.com/u/riscv64/
	-	x86/i686 (`i386`): https://hub.docker.com/u/i386/

As of 2017-09-12, these other architectures are included under the non-prefixed images via ["manifest lists"](https://docs.docker.com/registry/spec/manifest-v2-2/#manifest-list) (also known as ["indexes" in the OCI image specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.0.0/image-index.md)), such that, for example, `docker run hello-world` should run as-is on all supported platforms.

If you're curious about how these are built, head over to https://doi-janky.infosiftr.net/job/multiarch/ to see the build scaffolding.

See the [multi-arch section](#multiple-architectures) below for recommendations in adding more architectures to an official image.

## More FAQs?

Yes! We have [a dedicated FAQ repository](https://github.com/docker-library/faq) where we try to collect other common questions (both about the program and about our practices).

## Contributing to the standard library

Thank you for your interest in the Docker official images project! We strive to make these instructions as simple and straightforward as possible, but if you find yourself lost, don't hesitate to seek us out on [Libera.Chat IRC](https://libera.chat) in channel `#docker-library` or by creating a GitHub issue here.

Be sure to familiarize yourself with [Official Repositories on Docker Hub](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/official_repos/) and the [Best practices for writing Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/articles/dockerfile_best-practices/) in the Docker documentation. These will be the foundation of the review process performed by the official images maintainers. If you'd like the review process to go more smoothly, please ensure that your `Dockerfile`s adhere to all the points mentioned there, as well as [below](README.md#review-guidelines), before submitting a pull request.

Also, the Hub descriptions for these images are currently stored separately in the [`docker-library/docs` repository](https://github.com/docker-library/docs), whose [`README.md` file](https://github.com/docker-library/docs/blob/master/README.md) explains more about how it's structured and how to contribute to it. Please be prepared to submit a PR there as well, pending acceptance of your image here.

### Review Guidelines

Because the official images are intended to be learning tools for those new to Docker as well as the base images for advanced users to build their production releases, we review each proposed `Dockerfile` to ensure that it meets a minimum standard for quality and maintainability. While some of that standard is hard to define (due to subjectivity), as much as possible is defined here, while also adhering to the "Best Practices" where appropriate.

A checklist which may be used by the maintainers during review can be found in [`NEW-IMAGE-CHECKLIST.md`](NEW-IMAGE-CHECKLIST.md).

#### Maintainership

Version bumps and security fixes should be attended to in a timely manner.

If you do not represent upstream and upstream becomes interested in maintaining the image, steps should be taken to ensure a smooth transition of image maintainership over to upstream.

For upstreams interested in taking over maintainership of an existing repository, the first step is to get involved in the existing repository. Making comments on issues, proposing changes, and making yourself known within the "image community" (even if that "community" is just the current maintainer) are all important places to start to ensure that the transition is unsurprising to existing contributors and users.

When taking over an existing repository, please ensure that the entire Git history of the original repository is kept in the new upstream-maintained repository to make sure the review process isn't stalled during the transition. This is most easily accomplished by forking the new from the existing repository, but can also be accomplished by fetching the commits directly from the original and pushing them into the new repo (ie, `git fetch https://github.com/jsmith/example.git master`, `git rebase FETCH_HEAD`, `git push -f`). On GitHub, an alternative is to move ownership of the git repository. This can be accomplished without giving either group admin access to the other owner's repository:

-	create temporary intermediary organization
	-	[docker-library-transitioner](https://github.com/docker-library-transitioner) is available for this purpose if you would like our help
-	give old and new owners admin access to intermediary organization
-	old owner transfers repo ownership to intermediary organization
-	new owner transfers repo ownership to its new home
	-	recommend that old owner does not fork new repo back into the old organization to ensure that GitHub redirects will just work

#### Repeatability

Rebuilding the same `Dockerfile` should result in the same version of the image being packaged, even if the second build happens several versions later, or the build should fail outright, such that an inadvertent rebuild of a `Dockerfile` tagged as `0.1.0` doesn't end up containing `0.2.3`. For example, if using `apt` to install the main program for the image, be sure to pin it to a specific version (ex: `... apt-get install -y my-package=0.1.0 ...`). For dependent packages installed by `apt` there is not usually a need to pin them to a version.

No official images can be derived from, or depend on, non-official images (allowing the non-image [`scratch`](https://hub.docker.com/_/scratch/) and the intentionally limited exceptions pinned in [`.external-pins`](.external-pins) -- see also [`.external-pins/list.sh`](.external-pins/list.sh)).

#### Consistency

All official images should provide a consistent interface. A beginning user should be able to `docker run official-image bash` (or `sh`) without needing to learn about `--entrypoint`. It is also nice for advanced users to take advantage of entrypoint, so that they can `docker run official-image --arg1 --arg2` without having to specify the binary to execute.

1.	If the startup process does not need arguments, just use `CMD`:

	```Dockerfile
	CMD ["irb"]
	```

2.	If there is initialization that needs to be done on start, like creating the initial database, use an `ENTRYPOINT` along with `CMD`:

	```Dockerfile
	ENTRYPOINT ["/docker-entrypoint.sh"]
	CMD ["postgres"]
	```

	1.	Ensure that `docker run official-image bash` (or `sh`) works too. The easiest way is to check for the expected command and if it is something else, just `exec "$@"` (run whatever was passed, properly keeping the arguments escaped).

		```sh
		#!/bin/sh
		set -e

		# this if will check if the first argument is a flag
		# but only works if all arguments require a hyphenated flag
		# -v; -SL; -f arg; etc will work, but not arg1 arg2
		if [ "$#" -eq 0 ] || [ "${1#-}" != "$1" ]; then
		    set -- mongod "$@"
		fi

		# check for the expected command
		if [ "$1" = 'mongod' ]; then
		    # init db stuff....
		    # use gosu (or su-exec) to drop to a non-root user
		    exec gosu mongod "$@"
		fi

		# else default to run whatever the user wanted like "bash" or "sh"
		exec "$@"
		```

3.	If the image only contains the main executable and its linked libraries (ie no shell) then it is fine to use the executable as the `ENTRYPOINT`, since that is the only thing that can run:

	```Dockerfile
	ENTRYPOINT ["fully-static-binary"]
	CMD ["--help"]
	```

	The most common indicator of whether this is appropriate is that the image `Dockerfile` starts with [`scratch`](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/scratch/) (`FROM scratch`).

#### Clarity

Try to make the `Dockerfile` easy to understand/read. It may be tempting, for the sake of brevity, to put complicated initialization details into a standalone script and merely add a `RUN` command in the `Dockerfile`. However, this causes the resulting `Dockerfile` to be overly opaque, and such `Dockerfile`s are unlikely to pass review. Instead, it is recommended to put all the commands for initialization into the `Dockerfile` as appropriate `RUN` or `ENV` command combinations. To find good examples, look at the current official images.

Some examples at the time of writing:

-	[php](https://github.com/docker-library/php/blob/b4aeb948e2e240c732d78890ff03285b16e8edda/5.6/Dockerfile)
-	[python](https://github.com/docker-library/python/blob/3e5826ad0c6e29f07f6dc7ff8f30b4c54385d1bb/3.4/Dockerfile)
-	[ruby:2.2](https://github.com/docker-library/ruby/blob/e34b201a0f0b49818fc8373f6a9148e13d546bdf/2.2/Dockerfile)

#### init

Following the Docker guidelines it is highly recommended that the resulting image be just one concern per container; predominantly this means just one process per container, so there is no need for a full init system. There are two situations where an init-like process would be helpful for the container. The first being signal handling. If the process launched does not handle `SIGTERM` by exiting, it will not be killed since it is PID 1 in the container (see "NOTE" at the end of the [Foreground section](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#foreground) in the docker docs). The second situation would be zombie reaping. If the process spawns child processes and does not properly reap them it will lead to a full process table, which can prevent the whole system from spawning any new processes. For both of these concerns we recommend [tini](https://github.com/krallin/tini). It is incredibly small, has minimal external dependencies, fills each of these roles, and does only the necessary parts of reaping and signal forwarding.

Be sure to use tini in `CMD` or `ENTRYPOINT` as appropriate.

It is best to install tini from a distribution-provided package (ex. `apt-get install tini`). If tini is not available in your distribution or is too old, here is a snippet of a `Dockerfile` to add in tini:

```Dockerfile
# Install tini for signal processing and zombie killing
ENV TINI_VERSION v0.18.0
ENV TINI_SIGN_KEY 595E85A6B1B4779EA4DAAEC70B588DFF0527A9B7
RUN set -eux; \
  wget -O /usr/local/bin/tini "https://github.com/krallin/tini/releases/download/${TINI_VERSION}/tini"; \
  wget -O /usr/local/bin/tini.asc "https://github.com/krallin/tini/releases/download/${TINI_VERSION}/tini.asc"; \
  export GNUPGHOME="$(mktemp -d)"; \
  gpg --batch --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys "$TINI_SIGN_KEY"; \
  gpg --batch --verify /usr/local/bin/tini.asc /usr/local/bin/tini; \
  command -v gpgconf && gpgconf --kill all || :; \
  rm -r "$GNUPGHOME" /usr/local/bin/tini.asc; \
  chmod +x /usr/local/bin/tini; \
  tini --version
```

#### Cacheability

This is one place that experience ends up trumping documentation for the path to enlightenment, but the following tips might help:

-	Avoid `COPY`/`ADD` whenever possible, but when necessary, be as specific as possible (ie, `COPY one-file.sh /somewhere/` instead of `COPY . /somewhere`).

	The reason for this is that the cache for `COPY` instructions considers file `mtime` changes to be a cache bust, which can make the cache behavior of `COPY` unpredictable sometimes, especially when `.git` is part of what needs to be `COPY`ed (for example).

-	Ensure that lines which are less likely to change come before lines that are more likely to change (with the caveat that each line should generate an image that still runs successfully without assumptions of later lines).

	For example, the line that contains the software version number (`ENV MYSOFTWARE_VERSION 4.2`) should come after a line that sets up the APT repository `.list` file (`RUN echo 'deb http://example.com/mysoftware/debian some-suite main' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mysoftware.list`).

#### Security

##### Image Build

The `Dockerfile` should be written to help mitigate interception attacks during build. Our requirements focus on three main objectives: verifying the source, verifying author, and verifying the content; these are respectively accomplished by the following: using https where possible; importing PGP keys with the full fingerprint in the `Dockerfile` to check signatures; embedding checksums directly in the `Dockerfile`. All three should be used when possible. Just https and embedded checksum can be used when no signature is published. As a last resort, just an embedded checksum is acceptable if the site doesn't have https available and no signature.

The purpose in recommending the use of https for downloading needed artifacts is that it ensures that the download is from a trusted source which also happens to make interception much more difficult.

The purpose in recommending PGP signature verification is to ensure that only an authorized user published the given artifact. When importing PGP keys, please use the [the `keys.openpgp.org` service](https://keys.openpgp.org/about) when possible (preferring `keyserver.ubuntu.com` otherwise). See also the FAQ section on [keys and verification](https://github.com/docker-library/faq/#openpgp--gnupg-keys-and-verification).

The purpose in recommending checksum verification is to verify that the artifact is as expected. This ensures that when remote content changes, the Dockerfile also will change and provide a natural `docker build` cache bust. As a bonus, this also prevents accidentally downloading newer-than-expected artifacts on poorly versioned files.

Below are some examples:

-	**Preferred**: *download over https, PGP key full fingerprint import and `asc` verification, embedded checksum verified.*

	```Dockerfile
	ENV PYTHON_DOWNLOAD_SHA512 (sha512-value-here)
	RUN set -eux; \
	    curl -fL "https://www.python.org/ftp/python/$PYTHON_VERSION/Python-$PYTHON_VERSION.tar.xz" -o python.tar.xz; \
	    curl -fL "https://www.python.org/ftp/python/$PYTHON_VERSION/Python-$PYTHON_VERSION.tar.xz.asc" -o python.tar.xz.asc; \
	    export GNUPGHOME="$(mktemp -d)"; \
	# gpg: key F73C700D: public key "Larry Hastings <larry@hastings.org>" imported
	    gpg --batch --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 97FC712E4C024BBEA48A61ED3A5CA953F73C700D; \
	    gpg --batch --verify python.tar.xz.asc python.tar.xz; \
	    rm -r "$GNUPGHOME" python.tar.xz.asc; \
	    echo "$PYTHON_DOWNLOAD_SHA512 *python.tar.xz" | sha512sum --strict --check; \
	    # install
	```

-	**Alternate**: *full key fingerprint imported to apt which will check signatures and checksums when packages are downloaded and installed.*

	```Dockerfile
	RUN set -eux; \
	    key='A4A9406876FCBD3C456770C88C718D3B5072E1F5'; \
	    export GNUPGHOME="$(mktemp -d)"; \
	    gpg --batch --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys "$key"; \
	    gpg --batch --armor --export "$key" > /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/mysql.gpg.asc; \
	    gpgconf --kill all; \
	    rm -rf "$GNUPGHOME"; \
	    apt-key list > /dev/null

	RUN set -eux; \
	    echo "deb http://repo.mysql.com/apt/debian/ bookworm mysql-${MYSQL_MAJOR}" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mysql.list; \
	    apt-get update; \
	    apt-get install -y mysql-community-client="${MYSQL_VERSION}" mysql-community-server-core="${MYSQL_VERSION}"; \
	    rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*; \
	    # ...
	```

	(As a side note, `rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*` is *roughly* the opposite of `apt-get update` -- it ensures that the layer doesn't include the extra ~8MB of APT package list data, and enforces [appropriate `apt-get update` usage](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/#apt-get).)

-	**Less Secure Alternate**: *embed the checksum into the `Dockerfile`.*

	```Dockerfile
	ENV RUBY_DOWNLOAD_SHA256 (sha256-value-here)
	RUN set -eux; \
	    curl -fL -o ruby.tar.gz "https://cache.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/$RUBY_MAJOR/ruby-$RUBY_VERSION.tar.gz"; \
	    echo "$RUBY_DOWNLOAD_SHA256 *ruby.tar.gz" | sha256sum --strict --check; \
	    # install
	```

	-	**Note:** the use of either SHA1 or MD5 should be considered a "checksum of last resort" as both are considered generally unsafe:

		-	["Single-block collision for MD5" from 2012](https://marc-stevens.nl/research/md5-1block-collision/)
		-	["Announcing the first SHA1 collision" from 2017](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/02/announcing-first-sha1-collision.html)

-	**Unacceptable**: *download the file over http(s) with no verification.*

	```Dockerfile
	RUN curl -fL "https://julialang.s3.amazonaws.com/bin/linux/x64/${JULIA_VERSION%[.-]*}/julia-${JULIA_VERSION}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz" | tar ... \
	    # install
	```

##### Runtime Configuration

By default, Docker containers are executed with reduced privileges: whitelisted Linux capabilities, Control Groups, and a default Seccomp profile (1.10+ w/ host support). Software running in a container may require additional privileges in order to function correctly, and there are a number of command line options to customize container execution. See [`docker run` Reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/) and [Seccomp for Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/) for reference.

Official Repositories that require additional privileges should specify the minimal set of command line options for the software to function, and may still be rejected if this introduces significant portability or security issues. In general, `--privileged` is not allowed, but a combination of `--cap-add` and `--device` options may be acceptable. Additionally, `--volume` can be tricky as there are many host filesystem locations that introduce portability/security issues (e.g. X11 socket).

